Welcome my friend to today's
lecture on preposition.
Let's unpack the mystery of this concept
without needing a PhD or a panic attack.
Concept explanation.
All right, so what
exactly is a preposition?
Think of it like this, my friend.
A preposition is a small but very
powerful word, or sometimes a group
of words that we use right before a
noun, a pronoun, or even a noun phrase.
Its main job to show you directions,
tell you about time, pinpoint a place,
or even describe spatial relationships.
Sometimes it just introduces an object.
Simple.
They are truly the
bridges of your sentence.
Connecting one part to another and setting
up a clear relationship between them.
Think of them as small but mighty
words that tell you precisely where.
When or how something is
connected to something else.
It's like finding the exact
pin on Google Maps for your
sentence structure, isn't it?
These little guys, they
make all the difference.
Trust me.
For instance, consider these examples.
The book is on the table here
on tells us the location.
She arrived at 3:00 PM at specifies the
time he walked into the room into shows.
The direction I am interested in
music, in highlights the relationship.
Real world relevance.
Now, why is understanding these little
linguistic gems so critical, especially
for someone aiming to be a professional?
Well, my friend, precise communication
is not just important, it's paramount.
Using the correct preposition
ensures crystal clear understanding
in all your official documents
during customer interactions and
in those crucial financial reports.
Imagine a small misunderstanding
due to a wrong on or in.
It could have significant implications
like getting a loan approved in
Tuesday instead of on Tuesday.
Accuracy in language, just like
accuracy in numbers, builds
trust and helps maintain those
high professional standards.
No confusion, no re What
did they mean moments?
Just clear communication.
Breakdown of question types
based on past English language
exam patterns for your exam.
Questions related to prepositions
mainly pop up in a few common formats,
so let's break them down, shall we?
First up, we have fill in the
blanks, which can be single or double
blanks, making up approximately
30 to 40% of the questions.
Here, my friend.
You just need to pick the
absolutely correct preposition or
prepositions to complete a sentence.
It's like finding the missing piece
of a jigsaw puzzle, but with words.
Next, we have error spotting
usually around 30 to 35%.
This is where you play detective.
You identify the part of a sentence
that has a grammatical error, and
more often than not, it's that sneaky,
incorrect, or missing preposition.
Playing hide and seek.
Then comes sentence improvement
of phrase replacement accounting
for approximately 15 to 20%.
In these questions, you'll see an
underlined part of a sentence, and
your job is to replace it with a more
grammatically sound or appropriate option.
Guess what's frequently tested here?
Tested yes are Dear prepositions.
Finally, there's the close test,
which is about 10 to 15% of the pie.
This is a passage with multiple blanks,
and you have to select the most suitable
words, including prepositions from the
given options to complete the entire text.
It's like filling in the
blanks, but on a grander scale.
Formulas and tricks.
Now, don't expect any
complicated algebraic formulas
for prepositions, my friend.
They aren't numbers after all,
but they certainly follow rules
and common patterns, which if you
memorize are like your secret weapons.
Here are some key tricks and
rules to lock into your brain.
Let's talk about prepositions of time.
First, you use.
At for a very specific time, like at
6:00 PM at midnight, or even at dawn.
Think of it as a precise clock hand.
Then there's on for days and dates,
such as on Monday on October 26th, or
on my birthday, easy Write and in is for
months, years, seasons, or longer periods.
So it's in July in 2023.
In winter or in the morning
or evening, simple as chi.
Moving on to prepositions of place.
Opposition again at is for a specific
point or address, like at the
bus stop or at 24 B Main Street.
It's very particular on is for a
surface or a line such as on the
table, on the wall, or on the road.
Picture it resting
directly on something and.
In is for an enclosed space or
a large area, so it's in the
room in India or in the box.
Think inside.
Next up, prepositions of
movement or direction use.
Two.
When you are going towards a destination,
like go to school or travel to Paris,
it's about reaching a point into means
entering an enclosed space, such as jump
into the pool or put it into the bag.
It shows movement inside and onto is
for moving to a surface, like step onto
the stage or throw it onto the roof.
Think of placing something
on top with movement.
Now this is a big one.
Fixed prepositions.
These are like best friends
that never leave each other.
Many verbs and a objectives are just
followed by specific prepositions.
No ifs, ands, or buts.
You just have to memorize these
combinations like you memorize
your favorite biani recipe.
Common ones include accused of afraid
of approved, of belong to believe in,
benefit from, depend on or upon deal with.
Familiar with Fond of Full Off, good
at grateful to, or four interested
in, insist on, listen to look at,
look for, or look after proud of,
prevent From Responsible for rely on.
Succeed in suffering from talk
to or about, think of or about.
Don't forget prepositional phrases.
These are common phrases that actually
work like prepositions themselves.
Things like according to because
of in front of, or due to, they
function as a single unit, my friend.
And here's a super important trick.
Sometimes no preposition is required.
Yes, you heard that right?
Some verbs just don't need a preposition.
When they are followed by an object,
for example, you discuss something,
not discuss about something, you enter
somewhere, not enter into somewhere.
You accompany someone, not
accompany with someone.
Remember these and you'll save
marks and your brain cells too, from
unnecessary confusion because who
needs that stress methods of solving?
All right, my friend.
Let's get down to the brass tacks
of how to tackle these questions.
Here are some step-by-step methods
for approaching the common question
types involving prepositions.
Four, fill in the blanks questions.
Step one, read the sentence carefully
First, understand the overall
meaning and context of the sentence.
What's the story the sentence
is trying to tell you?
Step two, identify the relationship.
Determine what kind of relationship
the blank needs to express.
Is it time, place, direction, a
cause possession, or something else?
Step three, consider the word
before or after the blank.
Look for words, adjectives, or nouns that
often pair up with a specific preposition.
Remember those fixed prepositions
we just talked about?
Step four, test each option mentally.
Insert each given preposition option
into the blank and see which one
sounds grammatically correct and
makes perfect sense in the context.
It's like a trial run.
Step five, eliminate incorrect options.
Ruthlessly rule out the options that
clearly do not fit the grammatical
rules or the meaning of the sentence.
Now for error spotting questions,
step one, read the entire
sentence, get a complete holistic
understanding of the sentence.
Don't rush.
Step two, scan for prepositions.
Identify all the prepositions
used in the sentence.
Circle them if you like.
Step three, check prepositional usage.
For each preposition you found,
ask yourself a few questions.
Is this the correct preposition
for the word preceding it like
a verb, adjective, or noun.
Does it accurately convey the intended
relationship, time, place, or direction?
And most importantly, is the
preposition even needed here,
or is it just being redundant?
Step four, verify context.
Make sure the preposition fits
the overall meaning and the
logical flow of the sentence.
Know out of place.
Words please.
Step five, identify the erroneous segment.
Pinpoint the exact part of the sentence
where the preposition is used incorrectly
or perhaps is completely missing.
And for sentence improvement or
phrase replacement questions.
Step one, read the original
sentence and the underlined part,
understand the specific phrase
or part that's being tested.
What's the problem, child here?
Step two, analyze the underlined
part for preposition errors.
Figure out if the preposition in
the original sentence is wrong,
extra, or just sounds a bit awkward.
Step three, evaluate each option.
Go through the given options, A,
B, C, D one by one, and compare
them carefully with the original.
Step four, check for grammatical
correctness and meaning.
For each option, assess if it corrects
any errors in the original sentence and
if it maintains or actually improves
the sentences, meaning pay super close
attention to fixed prepositions and how
appropriate they are in the context.
Step five, choose the best fit.
Select the option that makes
the sentence grammatically sound
concise and absolutely clear.
If the original sentence is already
perfect, then by all means, choose
the no improvement required option.
Don't fix what isn't broken.
Right.
Shortcuts and smart techniques,
my friend in the exam hall.
Every second counts, right?
So these techniques are like your
express lane to solving preposition
questions and saving precious time.
First, use contextual clues.
Always, always read the
sentence in its entirety before.
Even glancing at the options, the
words surrounding the blank or
the preposition often drops strong
hints about the relationship needed.
For example, if it's a specific
time at is probably your best
bet if it's a surface, if.
On is a strong candidate, like a
good friend you can always rely on.
Then there's fixed
preposition recognition.
A significant chunk of these questions
truly depends solely on knowing
which preposition consistently
follows a particular verb.
Adjective or noun.
If you recognize a common fixed
preposition combination, you can quickly
choose the answer without needing
to do a deep philosophical analysis.
It's like knowing the answer even
before the question is fully asked.
Employ the elimination strategy if
you are a bit unsure, first, eliminate
the most obviously incorrect options.
This dramatically boosts your
chances of picking the right answer
from the choices that are left.
For instance, if a blank clearly
needs a preposition of time,
immediately cross out any options
that are prepositions of place.
Smart, isn't it?
You can also listen to your ear, but
with caution while not foolproof.
Sometimes a preposition just sounds right.
You can use this as a. Quick initial
check, but always, and I mean always
back it up with proper grammatical
rules, especially for less common usages.
This trick works better for those with
a strong, intuitive grasp of English
or who are practically native speakers.
A parallelism check is also
useful in sentences that have
multiple clauses or phrases.
Always check if prepositions
are used consistently, when
similar structures are involved.
Maintain that rhythm, my friend, and
finally have no preposition awareness.
Be very mindful of verbs that
simply do not require prepositions.
Examples include verbs like comprise,
discuss, emphasize, accompany approach.
Enter, or lack.
A common mistake in exams is adding
a completely redundant preposition.
When none is needed,
don't fall for that trap.
Common mistakes and misconceptions.
All right, let's talk about the potholes
on the road to preposition mastery.
Being aware of these common errors can
literally save you marks in your exam.
One biggie is confusing in,
on and at for place and time.
The mistake often is using in
for a very specific point or at
for a large area the correction.
Remember the size rule like a traffic
signal at for a specific point.
On for a line or surface and in for a
larger area or volume for time, it's
at, for a specific time on for a day
or date and in for a longer period.
Simple.
Then there's misusing, fixed
prepositions saying Depend off
instead of depend on or interested on.
Instead of interested
in are classic blunders.
The fix.
This absolutely requires
memorization, my friend.
When you learn new verbs or
adjectives, make it a habit to note
down the preposition they take.
Adding redundant prepositions is another
trap like saying, discussed about the
matter when it should just be discussed.
The matter, the correction, is to learn
verbs that are transitive, meaning they
directly take an object and therefore do
not need a preposition before that object.
Verbs like this.
Discuss, enter, comprise or
approach fall into this category.
Confusing between and among.
Also trips up many using between for more
than two items or among for exactly two.
The rule is use between for two distinct
items or clearly defined individual items.
Even if there are more than two.
Use a monk when you are
referring to a group or more
than two undifferentiated items.
It's about distinctness, not
just number and oh, incorrect.
Prepositions after arrive,
many say arrive to a place.
No, no, no.
The correction is to use arrive at
for specific places or points, like
arrive at the airport and arrive in
for larger entities like cities or
countries, such as arrive in Mumbai.
Lastly, using prepositions
with passive voice errors.
Often friends confuse by and with
the simple mantra is by indicates
the agent, meaning who did the action
while with indicates the instrument,
meaning what was used to do the action.
For instance, the door was
opened by the boy with a key.
See the difference?
W framework summary.
Let's quickly sum it up with our
classic W framework, shall we?
So what are prepositions?
They are those crucial words that
connect nouns, pronouns, or phrases
to other words in a sentence.
Beautifully showing relationships
like time, place, direction, or.
Even Cause why are they so important?
You ask?
Because my friend, they are absolutely
crucial for clarity, precision,
and grammatical correctness,
ensuring that your communication
is accurate in all contexts.
No room for guesswork.
When do we apply them?
We apply them precisely when we
are establishing relationships
between different elements.
In a sentence indicating time, location,
direction, or any other association
you can think of, where are they used?
Everywhere, boss.
They are used extensively in
everyday conversation, in academic
writing, in official documents, and
especially in workplace communication.
Who uses them?
Well, every single speaker and
writer of English uses prepositions
and professionals like yourselves
benefit immensely from their correct
application for utmost clarity.
And how are they applied?
They are applied by understanding
their specific functions, whether
it's time, place, or direction.
And of course, by diligently
memorizing those common fixed
preposition combinations.
Practice, practice.
Practice.
Fully worked out.
Examples.
All right, enough theory, my friend.
Let's dive into some practical,
fully worked out examples to
solidify our understanding.
Ready Example one, fill
in the blanks question.
The manager will preside
the meeting tomorrow.
Options, A on B over C at D in
understand the question before
moving to explanation, step-by-step
solution with detailed explanation.
Step one, analyze the verb, my friend.
The verb here is preside.
Step two, understand the meaning of
preside to preside means to be in the
position of authority, essentially to
be in charge of a meeting or a ceremony.
Step three, recall your
fixed prepositions.
Ah, this is where your
memory comes in handy.
The word preside is always, and I mean
always followed by the preposition
over when it means overseeing
a meeting or any formal event.
Step four, evaluate the options.
A on simply does not fit
the context of presiding.
It sounds off like a flat tire.
B. Over correctly forms the
phrasal verb preside over, which
perfectly means to be in charge.
This one sounds like music to the ears.
C at is generally used for specific
locations or times, again, not for
the act of presiding d. In is for
enclosed spaces or longer periods.
Again, not for the act of presiding.
Step five, select the correct option.
So my friend, option B is the
only grammatically correct and
contextually appropriate choice here.
See how straightforward it
is once you know the rule.
Correct answer is option B over
example two error spotting question.
The new policy will be effective
from first April and everyone must
adhere with its guidelines options.
A, the new policy B will be effective
from first April C, and everyone
must adhere with its guidelines.
D, no error.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
Step-by-step solution
with detailed explanation.
Step one, read the entire
sentence carefully, my friend.
The new policy will be effective
from first April and everyone
must adhere with its guidelines.
Step two, scan for
prepositions and their usage.
We have effective from first April, where
from is absolutely correct, indicating
the starting point of effectiveness.
Then we have adhere with its guidelines.
Hmm, a red flag perhaps.
Step three, check for fixed prepositions.
Aha.
The verb adhere commonly takes the
preposition to not with, adhere to
literally means to stick firmly to
something like rules or guidelines.
It's like glue my friend.
Step four, identify the error.
The error as expected is in the
phrase adhere with its guidelines.
It should be adhere.
To its guidelines.
This erroneous part is clearly in
segment C. Step five, conclude.
So segment C contains the big error.
Got it.
Correct answer is option C. And everyone
must adhere with its guide guidelines.
Example, three sentence
improvement question.
She is confident in
winning the competition.
Options.
A. Confident for winning.
B. Confident of winning
C. Confident about to win.
D. No improvement required.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
Step-by-step solution
with detailed explanation.
Step one, analyze the original
sentence and the underlined part.
The original sentence is she is
confident in winning the competition.
The preposition used here is in
step two, check the prepositional
usage with the adjective.
Confident, my friend, the a confident.
Typically demands the preposition
off when it's followed by ager,
like winning or a noun phrase.
Confident off conveys having
a strong belief in oneself or
the certainty of an outcome.
It's like saying, I'm sure of it.
Step three, evaluate.
Each option let's C. A
confident for winning four is
just incorrect with confident.
In this context, it's
like mixing oil and water.
B, confident of winning.
Aha.
This is it.
Off is the correct and most natural
preposition to use with confident
when you are expressing belief in
the successful outcome of an action.
Perfect fit like a custom made suit.
C. Confident about to win.
Now about to win implies that something
is going to happen very, very soon.
This completely changes the meaning
from her belief in winning to the
immediate closeness of her win.
Plus, it sounds grammatically awkward
with confident D. No improvement required.
The original sentence uses in which while
not entirely disastrous, is less common
and definitely less precise than off
with confident in this specific context.
So improvement is needed.
Step four, select the best option.
Option B, without a doubt makes
the sentence grammatically
correct and perfectly idiomatic.
Perfect correct answer is
option B. Confident of winning.
Thank you.
See you in the next lecture.